Hello everybody and welcome to this lecture where we are going to start putting together a mock-up of
our scene which then we can go ahead an animator to give ourselves an idea of what this scene in a game
might look like.
Okay so here we are back over in GIMP and I have laid out my wall sections like this.
Now if you have happen to make a couple more wall sections then of course at them in as well that's
going to be brilliant seeing what you guys come up with with this.
So there are a couple of things as you saw in that previous bit there was a torch on the wall and there
was also a table too.
Now in this particular lecture I'm going to focus on getting this torch and also looking at its effects
on the environment as well.
So I'm going to focus in on just one area and taking into account this is a 64 by 64 square Our torch
probably doesn't need to be that big but we'll start off with a 64 by 64 layer.
So we've got a bit of breathing room around it and I'm going to call that torch straightaway so I know
I'm dealing with.
I'm also going to create a layer group straightaway.
Now if try and call a labour group the same as a layer then it will just put dasch or hash one afterwards.
I'm going to put the torch in the torch layer.
And the reason for this is because we're going to build up the torch through a series of.
Layers and I just want them to be all together.
So the first thing to focus on is actually what the torch looks like.
And again this can be rough and ready for a mock-up if we get a right size brush and having a look online
at torches one of the best designs I found is that the cradle type 1 you can go ahead and I'm going
to do that.
Now I'm going to draw a torch.
Now when I start drawing here do you remember the layer ordered does matter so far.
Bring that up.
Now we can see our torch and I can go ahead and draw in those details.
Okay so now I have drawn my torch here on a separate layer.
We need to start thinking about what it might look like overall.
So the torch actual base itself where we're going to stick the fire that's going to be at the foreground
so all the other loads are going to be beneath that and going to create a one called flame.
It's a good name for it that need to be underneath the torch layer.
And what that will mean is as we start building it up not going to find a good pallet to do this that
we will find that it will look like the fire is within normally used the paint brush for doing this
and probably a little larger a size of brush and pop that in.
And then of course build this up with some other colours as well perhaps some reds in here has to be
come up.
Now it doesn't have to be perfect at this point because now I can go in straight after with the smudged
tool and I actually quite like that style of flame but you could go with the smudge tool and just make
the flame a little more blended in like that.
So you got a good starting point here now one of the things that were kind of missing is some lighting
effects.
What would this do.
So let's go ahead and add a bit of a lighting effect and I'm going to call it a lighting effect.
Remember to call things something that makes sense.
Now I've made this again far too large the layer or just noticed it wasn't sixty four but it's four.
But that's a car can shrink the lay down in a bit.
Now I want the lighting effect to kind of be on the back of the wall and on the floor underneath.
Again I'm going to use the paint brush and just add a bit of colour.
It doesn't really matter at this point in time how detailed you are with it.
There's going to be a reflection on the floor and there's going to be an area behind now behind I'm
going to grab myself a much larger brush probably even two.
Yeah.
And the air brush because the air brushes a little more subtle I can add a glow to our flame.
Now the lighting effect again needs to be beneath everything else.
Because it's the effect on the wall itself.
Now you could go ahead and start highlighting and I'll demonstrate it here.
We can start highlighting some maybe the edges around here as well that are being reflected and dark
in other areas.
If you wanted to I mean the possibilities here endless depending on how detailed you want to be after
you got those rough areas then we can do a bit of a Rooney and just make it look a bit on the smooth
side.
That's entirely up to you.
How much detail you want to go into.
But that's a great start.
I think the reflection on the floor might be too strong but we can deal with that in a bit.
The other thing that tends to happen is corners tend to be darker so we can add in on not on the torch
layer itself but perhaps the the solid wall layer itself we can add a layer group in there and start
adding some shadowing in so we build things up along those lines.
The other way we could do this is to create a brand new layer and I'm going to call this a gradient.
It's a darkened gradient where things lower down a darker and put that just at the top but underneath
the torched layer I'm going to grab a darker colour so from this palette I can go for a darker sort
of blue and then go into the gradient feel tool options under the gradient itself.
We can pick it going from the foreground colour to transparent.
When we go ahead and select bats I can drag up and I'm going to use control to make sure it's completely
vertical and you can see it adds in a nice fade to a scene that's far too strong.
So it again at this point we just need to turn down the a pass to maybe a 50 per cent but it gives the
whole wall a different dynamic when we do that and is certainly looking quite good now with these reflections
here.
Now of course when it comes to animating this later on we need to bear in mind the more layers and fancy
bits that we add we'll end up causing ourselves exponentially more work to do.
So there are a couple of tricks to getting around that and that is perhaps oscillating between two different
things.
So for instance if I copy our torched layer here and literally all I need to do to animates this flame
would be to select the flame layer under the lay a menu transform it and flip it around horizontally.
Now we can see this is one of the issues with having the wrong size layer is it's flipped it around.
On the other side this would be a good time of course to shrink our layers down to the right size.
The auto crop that low and I'm going to auto crop all of these large layers surveyor around the right
size that also means they're not going to take up too much space and gives us far more control over
the rest of production as well.
What we don't want to do of course is run out of RAM halfway through making a more complex animation.
This is one of the most complicated ones we've done so far.
Now I'm going to go to the flame that I was working on.
I flipped round and I'm going to move it across here.
And then you can see that we can oscillate between the two as we're animating it.
And again this is it doesn't have to be a high fidelity animation.
This is to give an impression of what the area all looked like.
Now of course you could also do similar things with the lights reflection on the floor.
Now this reflection on the floor I still think is far too light.
And part of that is because we've got these two torch labour groups on top of one another so when you
are working on one remember to turn off the others otherwise you get a not very good impression of what
it's looking like.
In fact it'll end up much brighter but down on the floor I'm not liking this reflection.
I think it's too bright.
Basically someone go to the smudge tool again and that she smudge it out just a little bit more.
And there we go.
I'm starting to like how that's coming together.
Of course now you can go ahead and this we saw if I go and grab my previous incantation of it we can
go ahead and add other elements like tables and another torch in the scene with a slightly different
ground effect you can see they both got different ground effects.
I decided to put a candle on this table.
No lighting effects but I thought it would be pretty awesome if both the candle flickered and the inside
of this window or so had a bit of illumination mean lots and lots you can do to try to bite off too
much perhaps even start off with one square and build up from there it's entirely up to you where you
take this particular project because we're coming up to the point now where you guys are going to have
to create your own mock-up for end of section challenge.
But before we do that it's time to finish the mock-up of the scene.
And that's right it's time for a challenge.
I'd like you to finish off fleshing out our mock-up that we're doing no animations just yet.
I know it's tempting to dive straight in.
But what we want to do is make sure that our mock-up is quote unquote right.
Obviously it's a mock-up but it gives us a good idea of how the scene is going to lay out what we don't
want to do is start doing animations without knowing what's going to impact what in our scene do.
Go ahead and add some interesting elements you've seen some examples maybe a candle a table etc. and
perhaps something on the wall perhaps a statue is up to you but do make this your own dungeon scene.
It's a chance to take that reference material and see what you can incorporate into your own scene.
And finally there are lots of options you can add.
I would recommend that you keep it simple.
It's very tempting to add loads of stuff into the scene if it's going to be static.
That's fine but if you're planning on animating Let's keep the animated areas to not a minimum as such
but to a manageable level.
Go ahead pause a video now and give that a go.
OK everyone.
Welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and have a look at what I've done with fleshing out the mock-up.
Okay so here we go I've spent some time going through.
It took about half an hour or so to put everything together here would just scroll across and have a
look at how it's all put together for the moment it's also subject to change and compounding together
where necessary or put together societally.
So the first thing obviously is the background we've got all the background pieces in place.
But I have not combine them into one layer just yet.
I'm going to go ahead and do that.
Now while some thinking about it lay a group called it background.
And then just put all of these solid wall bits in the background itself.
It is tempting at this point and perfectly valid if you're 100 percent happy sticking all of these into
one law just one particular layer itself so it's perfectly fine to collapse them down.
I'm going to leave them separately for the moment just for some control as I'm still developing this
then above that I've got a fade as you can see here it just makes the whole scene slightly darker.
Now of course you can go in an ad even further shadowing.
I've not gone ahead and done anything on the pillars.
I kind of want to.
But at the same time I'm aware that it's going to increase the animation workload as well and I don't
think it's going to add that much to our scene.
Now the actual glow on the background and the floor and around the actual window and benefit candle
if we have a look of added a little highlight underneath for candle as well so you've got the candle
and underneath it is the candle lighting so that the object itself is always prominent.
Now the candle lighting you can probably see there the layer boundary is pretty large.
So at this point in time it's also worthwhile going through and just cropping your layers down to their
appropriate size and pretty sure the candle is absolutely massive as well.
So underlayer auto crop player then it's only around the area.
It needs to be saving you a lot of time and effort superhuman human it comes to animating it's udorn
to be animating a huge scene and it will take ages to process.
If it's too large as well.
I've also on our as you can see here the torches there a slightly different design I didn't like the
vertical bit so I made it slightly diagonal opposed to going straight up and I've added a little shadow
over this area but I'm just drawn on.
I didn't want to this area just underneath the torch has an area of shadow it's very subtle but it does
stand out.
And of course when you've got bright lights like a flame you can have harsh shadows.
So one of the things that does stand out about these tables at the moment is there's no shadowing being
done and that might be something worth while looking into.
I don't know yet whether I'm going to keep these.
This is a mock up that's the whole point of doing it.
But otherwise I'm liking how that's all coming together.
How did you guys get on I'd love to see your mock ups and what you were going to do coming up when it
comes to our animations.
And I will see you all in the next lecture.